README.md, before:

# text-localization-agent

The code to train the agent.

## Prerequisites

You need Python 3 (preferably 3.6) installed, as well as the requirements from `requirements.txt`:

```bash
$ pip install -r requirements.txt 
```

Furthermore, you need to install the [text-localization-environment](https://github.com/hpi-www-midl-text-localization/text-localization-environment) by following its **Installation** instructions.

## Usage

Training an agent requires two files:

1. A textfile where each line contains the path to one image in the training dataset
2. A numpy file (.npy) that contains the bounding boxes associated with each image. For n images this file contains a list with n entries where each entry is a list of bounding boxes in the format ((x<sub>topleft</sub>, y<sub>topleft</sub>), (x<sub>bottomright</sub>, y<sub>bottomright</sub>))

Datasets generated by the [dataset generator](https://github.com/hpi-www-midl-text-localization/dataset-generator) fullfill these requirements. With these two files you can start training by starting the train_agent.py script. Here is an overview of the available options:

You need to specify a config file similar to the `example.ini` the following way: `python3 train_agent.py --config config.ini`

## TensorBoard

If you would like the program to generate log-files appropriate for visualization in TensorBoard, you need to:

* Install **tensorflow**
  ```bash
  $ pip install tensorflow
  ```
  (If you use Python 3.7 and the installation fails, use: `pip install --upgrade https://storage.googleapis.com/tensorflow/mac/cpu/tensorflow-1.12.0-py3-none-any.whl
` instead. [See here, why.](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/issues/20444#issuecomment-442767411))
* Run the *text-localization-agent* program with the `--tensorboard` flag
   ```bash
   $ python train-agent.py --tensorboard --imagefile … --boxfile …
   ``` 
* Start TensorBoard pointing to the `tensorboard/` directory inside the *text-localization-agent* project
   ```bash
   $ tensorboard --logdir=<path to text-localization-agent>/tensorboard/
   …
   TensorBoard 1.12.0 at <link to TensorBoard UI> (Press CTRL+C to quit)
   ``` 
* Open the TensorBoard UI via the link that is provided when the `tensorboard` program is started (usually: http://localhost:6006)

## Training on the chair's servers

To run the training on one of the chair's servers you need to:

* Clone the necessary repositories
* Create a new virtual environment. Note that the Python version needs to be at least 3.6 for everything to run. 
The default might be a lower version so if that is the case you must make sure that the correct version is used.
You can pass the correct python version to virtualenv via the `-p` parameter, for example
    ```bash
    $ virtualenv -p python3.6 <envname>
    ```
    (If there is no Python 3.6/3.7 installed you are out of luck because we don't have sudo access)
* Activate the environment via
    ```bash
    $ source <envname>/bin/activate
    ```
* Install the required packages (see section "Prerequisites"). Don't forget **cupy**, **tb_chainer** and **tensorflow**!
* Prepare the training data (either generate it using the [dataset-generator](https://github.com/hpi-www-midl-text-localization/dataset-generator)
or transfer existing data on the server)
* To avoid stopping the training after disconnecting from the server, you might want to use a terminal-multiplexer 
such as [tmux](https://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/tmux/) or [screen](https://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/Screen/)
* Set the CUDA_PATH and LD_LIBRARY_PATH variables if they are not already set. The command should be something like
    ```bash
    $ export CUDA_PATH=/usr/local/cuda
    $ export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$CUDA_PATH/lib64:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
    ```
* To download the ResNet-152 caffemodel (it isn't downloaded automatically) see [link](https://onedrive.live.com/?authkey=%21AAFW2-FVoxeVRck&id=4006CBB8476FF777%2117887&cid=4006CBB8476FF777) and save it where necessary (an error will tell you where if you try to create a TextLocEnv).
* Start training!

These instructions are for starting from scratch, for example if there is already a suitable virtual environment you 
obviously don't need to create a new one.

## Evaluating

* To evaluate a previously trained agent on a dataset, you may use the `evaluate` method available as a click CLI when executing:
    ```bash
    $ python evaluate_agent.py
    ```
    (Run `python evaluate_agent.py --help` to see the required parameters for the CLI)
* If you provide the `--save` flag in the CLI above, it creates `.npy` files which can be read by the `evaluate_from_files` CLI afterwards:
    ```bash
    $ python evaluate_from_files.py
    ```
    (Run `python evaluate_from_files.py --help` to see the required parameters for the CLI)
* The `evaluate_from_files` CLI allows defining an IoU threshold used for the calculation of the evaluation metrics. Furthermore, it does not only output the mean average precision (mAP) but also the precision and recall values.

## Creating image sequences/animations for visualization purposes

* To create an image sequence of a an already trained agent acting on a specific image, use:
    ```bash
    $ python generate_image_sequence.py
    ```
    (Run `python generate_image_sequence.py --help` to see the required parameters for the CLI and have a look into the `generate_image_sequence.py` file for instructions on creating a video out of the generated single frames using ffmpeg)

Commit message:

Remove unused files, Update README

README.md, after:

# text-localization-agent

The code to train the agent.

## Prerequisites

You need Python 3 (preferably 3.6) installed, as well as the requirements from `requirements.txt`:

```bash
$ pip install -r requirements.txt 
```

Furthermore, you need to install the [text-localization-environment](https://github.com/hpi-www-midl-text-localization/text-localization-environment) by following its **Installation** instructions.

## Usage

Training an agent requires two files:

1. A textfile where each line contains the path to one image in the training dataset
2. A numpy file (.npy) that contains the bounding boxes associated with each image. For n images this file contains a list with n entries where each entry is a list of bounding boxes in the format ((x<sub>topleft</sub>, y<sub>topleft</sub>), (x<sub>bottomright</sub>, y<sub>bottomright</sub>))

Datasets generated by the [dataset generator](https://github.com/hpi-www-midl-text-localization/dataset-generator) fullfill these requirements. With these two files you can start training by starting the train_agent.py script. Here is an overview of the available options:

You need to specify a config file similar to the `example.ini` the following way: `python3 train_agent.py --config config.ini`

Overview of executable python scripts:
|File|Purpose|
|---|---|
|`iou.py`| Measures the IoUs of an agent for 100 epsiodes|
|`train_agent.py`|Train the agent|
|`visualize_agent_graph.py`| Creates a .dot file of the computational graph of the agent|
|`visualize_agent.py`| Creates an image sequnce of maximum 15 steps of an episode|

## TensorBoard

If you would like the program to generate log-files appropriate for visualization in TensorBoard, you need to:

* Install **tensorflow**
  ```bash
  $ pip install tensorflow
  ```
  (If you use Python 3.7 and the installation fails, use: `pip install --upgrade https://storage.googleapis.com/tensorflow/mac/cpu/tensorflow-1.12.0-py3-none-any.whl
` instead. [See here, why.](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/issues/20444#issuecomment-442767411))
* Run the *text-localization-agent* program with the `--tensorboard` flag
   ```bash
   $ python train-agent.py --tensorboard --imagefile … --boxfile …
   ``` 
* Start TensorBoard pointing to the `tensorboard/` directory inside the *text-localization-agent* project
   ```bash
   $ tensorboard --logdir=<path to text-localization-agent>/tensorboard/
   …
   TensorBoard 1.12.0 at <link to TensorBoard UI> (Press CTRL+C to quit)
   ``` 
* Open the TensorBoard UI via the link that is provided when the `tensorboard` program is started (usually: http://localhost:6006)

## Training on the chair's servers

To run the training on one of the chair's servers you need to:

* Clone the necessary repositories
* Create a new virtual environment. Note that the Python version needs to be at least 3.6 for everything to run. 
The default might be a lower version so if that is the case you must make sure that the correct version is used.
You can pass the correct python version to virtualenv via the `-p` parameter, for example
    ```bash
    $ virtualenv -p python3.6 <envname>
    ```
    (If there is no Python 3.6/3.7 installed you are out of luck because we don't have sudo access)
* Activate the environment via
    ```bash
    $ source <envname>/bin/activate
    ```
* Install the required packages (see section "Prerequisites"). Don't forget **cupy**, **tb_chainer** and **tensorflow**!
* Prepare the training data (either generate it using the [dataset-generator](https://github.com/hpi-www-midl-text-localization/dataset-generator)
or transfer existing data on the server)
* To avoid stopping the training after disconnecting from the server, you might want to use a terminal-multiplexer 
such as [tmux](https://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/tmux/) or [screen](https://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/Screen/)
* Set the CUDA_PATH and LD_LIBRARY_PATH variables if they are not already set. The command should be something like
    ```bash
    $ export CUDA_PATH=/usr/local/cuda
    $ export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$CUDA_PATH/lib64:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
    ```
* To download the ResNet-50 caffemodel (it isn't downloaded automatically) see [link](https://onedrive.live.com/?authkey=%21AAFW2-FVoxeVRck&id=4006CBB8476FF777%2117887&cid=4006CBB8476FF777) and save it where necessary (an error will tell you where if you try to create a TextLocEnv).
* Start training!

These instructions are for starting from scratch, for example if there is already a suitable virtual environment you 
obviously don't need to create a new one.
